Ibn Omar (May Allah be pleased with them) reported: The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "Salat in congregation is twenty-seven times more meritorious than a Salat performed individually" (Agreed upon)

Abu Hurairah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, I sometimes thought of giving orders for firewood to be collected, then for proclaiming the Adhan for Salat. Then I would appoint an Imam to lead Salat, and then go to the houses of those who do not come to perform Salat in congregation, and set fire to their houses on them" [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Ibn Mas`ud (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: He who likes to meet Allah tomorrow (i.e., on the Day of  Requital) as a Muslim, should take care and observe the Salat when the Adhan is announced for them. Allah has expounded to your Prophet (Peace be upon him) the ways of right guidance, and these (the prayers) are part of the right guidance. If you have to perform Salat in your houses, as this man who stays away (from the mosque) and performs Salat in his house, you will abandon the Sunnah (practice) of your Prophet (Peace be upon him), and the departure from the Sunnah of your Prophet (Peace be upon him) will lead you astray. I have seen the time when no one stayed behind except a well-known hypocrite. I also saw that a man was brought swaying (on account of weakness) between two men till he was set up in a row (in the mosque). [Muslim]

Abud-Darda' (May Allah be pleased with him)reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) saying, "If three men in a village or in the desert, make no arrangement for Salat in congregation, Satan must have certainly overcome them. So observe Salat in congregation, for the wolf eats up a solitary sheep that stays far from the flock" [Abu Dawud]

Abu Hurairah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: A blind man came to the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) and said: "O Messenger of Allah! I have no one to guide me to the mosque" He, therefore, sought his permission to perform Salat (prayer) in his house. He (Peace be upon him) granted him permission. When the man turned away, he called him back, and said, "Do you hear the Adhan (call to prayer)?'' He replied in the affirmative. The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) then directed him to respond to it. [Muslim]
