Anas (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) was the best of all the people in behaviour. [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Anas (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: I never felt any piece of velvet or silk softer than the palm of the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him), nor did I smell any fragrance more pleasant than the smell of Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him). I served him for ten years, and he never said `Uff' (an expression of disgust) to me. He never said `why did you do that?' for something I had done, nor did he ever say `why did you not do such and such' for something I had not done. [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Sa`b bin Jaththamah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: I presented a wild ass to Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) as a gift but he returned it to me. When he perceived signs of despair on my face, he said, "I have declined to accept it because I am in the state of Ihram" [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Nawwas bin Sam`an (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: I asked Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) about virtue and sin, and he said, "Virtue is noble behaviour, and sin is that which creates doubt and you do not like people to know about it" [Muslim]

Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`as (May Allah be pleased with them) reported: Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) did not indulge in loose talk nor did he like to listen to it. He used to say, "The best of you is the best among you in conduct" [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Abud-Darda (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: The Prophet (Peace be upon him) said, "Nothing will be heavier on the Day of Resurrection in the Scale of the believer than good manners. Allah hates one who utters foul or coarse language" [At-Tirmidhi]

Abu Hurairah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) was asked about the deed which will be foremost to lead a man to Jannah. He replied, "Fear of Allah and the good conduct.'' Then he was asked about indulgence which will admit a man to Hell (Fire) and he answered, "The tongue and the genitals" [At-Tirmidhi]

Abu Hurairah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "The most perfect man in his faith among the believers is the one whose behaviour is most excellent; and the best of you are those who are the best to their wives" [At-Tirmidhi]

`Aishah (May Allah be pleased with her) reported: I heard Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) saying: "A believer will attain by his good behaviour the rank of one who prays during the night and observes fasting during the day" [Abu Dawud]

Abu Umamah Al-Bahili (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "I guarantee a house in Jannah for one who gives up arguing, even if he is in the right; and I guarantee a home in the middle of Jannah for one who abandons lying even for the sake of fun; and I guarantee a house in the highest part of Jannah for one who has good manners" [Abu Dawud]

Jabir (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "The dearest and nearest among you to me on the Day of Resurrection will be one who is the best of you in manners; and the most abhorrent among you to me and the farthest of you from me will be the pompous, the garrulous, and Al-Mutafaihiqun.'' The Companions asked him: "O Messenger of Allah! We know about the pompous and the garrulous, but we do not know who Al-Mutafaihiqun are.'' He replied: "The arrogant people" [At-Tirmidhi]
