Abu Hurairah (May Allah be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (Peace be upon him) said, "Allah has written the very portion of Zina which a man will indulge in. There will be no escape from it. The Zina of the eye is the (lustful) look, the Zina of the ears is the listening (to voluptuous songs or talk), the Zina of the tongue is (the licentious) speech, the Zina of the hand is the (lustful) grip, the Zina of the feet is the walking (to the place where he intends to commit Zina), the heart yearns and desires and the private parts approve all that or disapprove it" [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri (May Allah be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (Peace be upon him) said, "Avoid sitting on roadsides.'' His Companions said: "O Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him), there is no other alternative but to sit there to talk.'' Thereupon the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "If you have to sit at all, then fulfill the rights of the road.'' They asked: "What are their rights?'' Thereupon he said, "Lowering the gaze (so that you may not stare at unlawful things); refraining from doing some harm to others, responding to greeting (i.e., saying `Wa`alaikumus-salam' to one another) and commanding the good and forbidding the evil" [Al-Bukhari and Muslim]

Abu Talhah Zaid bin Sahl (May Allah be pleased with him) said: We were sitting and talking on a platform in front of our house when the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) stopped by us and said, "Why do you sit on roads? Avoid sitting in them.'' We replied: "We sit there intending no harm. We only sit and discuss (religious) knowledge and talk.'' He said, "If you have to sit, you should fulfill the rights of the road: Lower your gaze, respond to greetings and talk in a good manner" [Muslim]

Jarir bin `Abdullah (May Allah be pleased with him) said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) about (the Islamic ruling on) accidental glance (i.e., at a woman one is not Islamically allowed to look at) and he ordered me to turn my eyes away. [Muslim]

Umm Salamah (May Allah be pleased with her) said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) along with Maimunah (May Allah be pleased with him) when Ibn Umm Maktum (May Allah be pleased with him) (who was blind) came to visit him. (This incident took place after the order of Hijab). The Prophet (Peace be upon him) told us to hide ourselves from him (i.e., observe Hijab). We said: "O Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him), he is blind and is unable to see us, nor does he know us.'' He replied; "Are you also blind and unable to see him?" [Abu Dawud and At-Tirmidhi]

Ibn Mas`ud (May Allah be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said, "No woman should touch another woman's body and then describe the details of her figure to her husband in such a manner as if he was looking at her" [Al-Bukhari]
