1- Asbahna wa-asbahal-mulku lillah walhamdu lillah la ilaha illal-lah, wahdahu la shareeka lah, lahul-mulku walahul-hamd, wahuwa AAala kulli shayin qadeer, rabbi as-aluka khayra ma fee hatha-alyawmi, wakhayra ma baAAdaho, wa-aAAoothu bika min sharri hatha-alyawmi, washarri ma baAAdaho, rabbi aAAoothu bika minal-kasal, wasoo-il kibar, rabbi aAAoothu bika min AAathabin fin-nar, waAAathabin fil-qabr. 
{Meaning: We have reached the morning and at this very time unto Allah belongs all sovereignty, and all praise is for Allah. None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, alone, without partner, to Him belongs all sovereignty and praise and He is over all things omnipotent. My Lord, I ask You for the good of this day and the good of what follows it and I take refuge in You from the evil of this day and the evil of what follows it. My Lord, I take refuge in You from laziness and senility. My Lord, I take refuge in You from torment in the Fire and punishment in the grave}

2- Allahumma bika asbahna wabika amsayna, wabika nahya ,wabika namootu wa-ilaykan-nushoor.
{Meaning: O Allah, by your leave we have reached the morning and by Your leave we have reached the evening, by Your leave we live and die and unto You is our resurrection}

3- Allahumma anta rabbee la ilaha illa ant, khalaqtanee wa-ana AAabduk, wa-ana AAala AAahdika wawaAAdika mas-tataAAt, aAAoothu bika min sharri ma sanaAAt, aboo-o laka biniAAmatika AAalay, wa-aboo-o bithanbee, faghfir lee fa-innahu la yaghfiruth-thunooba illa ant.
{Meaning: O Allah, You are my Lord, none has the right to be worshipped except You, You created me and I am Your servant and I abide to Your covenant and promise as best I can, I take refuge in You from the evil of which I have committed. I acknowledge Your favour upon me and I acknowledge my sin, so forgive me, for verily none can forgive sin except You}

4- Allahumma innee asbahtu oshhiduk, wa-oshhidu hamalata AAarshik, wamala-ikatak, wajameeAAa khalqik, annaka antal-lahu la ilaha illa ant, wahdaka la shareeka lak, wa-anna Muhammadan AAabduka warasooluk (four times)
{Meaning: O Allah, verily I have reached the morning and call on You, the bearers of Your throne, Your angles, and all of Your creation to witness that You are Allah, none has the right to be worshipped except You, alone, without partner and that Muhammad is Your Servant and Messenger}

5- Allahumma ma asbaha bee min niAAmatin, aw bi-ahadin min khalqik, faminka wahdaka la shareeka lak, falakal-hamdu walakash-shukr.
{Meaning: O Allah, what blessing I or any of Your creation have risen upon, is from You alone, without partner, so for You is all praise and unto You all thanks}

6- Allahumma AAafinee fee badanee, allahumma AAafinee fee samAAee, allahumma AAafinee fee basaree, la ilaha illa ant.(three times).
{Meaning: O Allah, grant my body health, O Allah, grant my hearing health, O Allah, grant my sight health. None has the right to be worshipped except You}
Allahumma innee aAAoothu bika minal-kufr, walfaqr, wa-aAAoothu bika min AAathabil-qabr, la ilaha illa ant (three times).
{Meaning: O Allah, I take refuge with You from disbelief and poverty, and I take refuge with You from the punishment of the grave. None has the right to be worshipped except You}

7- Hasbiyal-lahu la ilaha illa huwa, AAalayhi tawakkalt, wahuwa rabbul-AAarshil-AAatheem. (seven times)
{Meaning: Allah is Sufficient for me, none has the right to be worshipped except Him, upon Him I rely and He is Lord of the exalted throne}

8- Allahumma innee as-alukal-AAafwa walAAafiyah, fid-dunya wal-akhirah, allahumma innee as-alukal-AAafwa walAAafiyah fee deenee, wadunyaya wa-ahlee, wamalee, allahummas-tur AAawratee, wa-amin rawAAatee, allahummah-fathnee min bayni yaday, wamin khalfee, waAAan yameenee, waAAan shimalee, wamin fawqee, wa-aAAoothu biAAathamatika an oghtala min tahtee.
{Meaning: O Allah, I ask You for pardon and well-being in this life and the next. O Allah, I ask You for pardon and well-being in my religious and worldly affairs, and my family and my wealth. O Allah, veil my weaknesses and set at ease my dismay. O Allah, preserve me from the front and from behind and on my right and on my left and from above, and I take refuge with You lest I be swallowed up by the earth}

9- Allahumma AAalimal-ghaybi washshahadah, fatiras-samawati wal-ard, rabba kulli shayin wamaleekah, ashhadu an la ilaha illa ant, aAAoothu bika min sharri nafsee wamin sharrish-shaytani washirkih, waan aqtarifa AAala nafsee soo-an aw ajurrahu ila muslim.
{Meaning: O Allah, Knower of the unseen and the seen, Creator of the heavens and the Earth, Lord and Sovereign of all things, I bear witness that none has the right to be worshipped except You. I take refuge in You from the evil of my soul and from the evil and shirk of the devil, and from committing wrong against my soul or bringing such upon another Muslim}

10- Bismil-lahil-lathee la yadurru maAAas-mihi shay-on fil-ardi wala fis-sama-i wahuwas-sameeAAul-AAaleem. (three times)
{Meaning: In the name of Allah with whose name nothing is harmed on earth nor in the heavens and He is The All-Seeing, The All-Knowing}

11- Radeetu billahi rabban wabil-islami deenan wabiMuhammadin peace be upon to him nabiyya. (three times)
{Meaning: I am pleased with Allah as a Lord, and Islam as a religion and Muhammad peace be upon to him as a Prophet}

12- Subhanal-lahi wabihamdih, AAadada khalqihi warida nafsih, wazinata AAarshih, wamidada kalimatih. (three times)
{Meaning: How perfect Allah is and I praise Him by the number of His creation and His pleasure, and by the weight of His throne, and the ink of His words}

13- Subhanal-lahi wabihamdih. (one hundred times)
{Meaning: How perfect Allah is and I praise Him}

14- Ya hayyu ya qayyoom, birahmatika astagheeth, aslih lee sha/nee kullah, wala takilnee ila nafsee tarfata AAayn.
{Meaning: O Ever Living, O Self-Subsisting and Supporter of all, by Your mercy I seek assistance, rectify for me all of my affairs and do not leave me to myself, even for the blink of an eye}

15- La ilaha illal-lah, wahdahu la shareeka lah, lahul-mulku walahul-hamd, wahuwa AAala kulli shay-in qadeer. (one hundred times)
{Meaning: None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, alone, without partner, to Him belongs all sovereignty and praise, and He is over all things omnipotent} 

16- Asbahna wa-asbahal-mulku lillahi rabbil-AAalameen, allahumma innee as-aluka khayra hathal-yawm, fat-hahu, wanasrahu, wanoorahu, wabarakatahu, wahudahu, wa-aAAoothu bika min sharri ma feehi, washarri ma baAAdah.
{Meaning: We have reached the morning and at this very time all sovereignty belongs to Allah, Lord of the worlds. O Allah, I ask You for the good of this day, its triumphs and its victories, its light and its blessings and its guidance, and I take refuge in You from the evil of this day and the evil that follows it}
_____________________
